# dndcypher

Purpose: This file serves as a simple plaintext blog for this project. I may one day take this and make something more from it, but for now it exists to help order my thoughts.

23/11/2020
Since starting this rebuild, I've done more research into the actual cypher methods I used first time around, since up until this point theres been no real innovation involved in this project. I refreshed what I knew about the Ceasar cypher, and introduced myself formally to the Vigènere cypher. Originally I simply knew it as the cypher that the confederate states used for the cypher discs (which was the main goal, as I wanted to use this cypher with a physical prop for dungeons and dragons!), but after looking into it more I now know that it is a sort of polyalphabetic substitution cypher. I also learned that its pretty hard to crack by hand. So, for the next step of this little project I intend to refer to these encryption types by name (rather than basic vs advanced!) and add a way to break the Vigènere cypher. Perhaps down the line I will add a distinct function for more types of cyphers, and grow this from a fun little d&d project, and into a lesson about the abundance of cyphers that exist and how they all compare.

1/12/2020
Funny how after starting the diary my activity dropped. Well, yes and no. Got into a strange loop of wanting to tidy and split up the code and worrying whether it was too early to do something like that. So I just spent a lot of time putting off any kind of decision and instead read up on various python bits and pieces. So while the time was productive, it wasn't productive on this particular project. Until today! Finally pulled the trigger and started tidying the code up, splitting it off into different files as needed, etc. Gotta say, glad I did it. Now the real work begins with the frequency analysis and brute force methods!